# SIOPS Dev Branch

This is a new branch of SIOPS for unofficial development, meaning that the code here isn't as rigorously tested and is not officially supported. Documentation may not reflect the newest features either. Use at your own risk!
The most notable new feature of this branch is the ability to use pads instead of piles in single-layer soils. This is so far completely untested. Pad design works by starting off with a single element, then progressively increases the width by 1 element on all sides (basically 2 elements in both directions) until the maximum "pile" width is reached. The pad design and assessment process otherwise works identically to that of piles, and simulates 3D linear elastic FEA where the pad is a rigid plate acting at the surface, perfectly bonded to the soil.

SIOPS (site investigation optimisation for piles using statistics) is a versatile command-line tool for optimising geotechnical site investigations, allowing the user to quickly analyse the performance of a wide range of investigations. This in turn allows them to determine the best investigation scheme in terms of number, location, and type of test(s) by a number of different metrics. The building is assumed to be a generic multi-story structure supported by piles. The soil may be variable single layer or consist of multiple layers with constant properties. Statistical analysis is undertaken through the use of Monte Carlo analysis and random virtual soils. A genetic algorithm is also included. SIOPS is written entirely in modern Fortran. Please see the PDF instruction manual for details.
